Women In

We received the following letter and statement from
women in Seattle, and we thank them for sharing their
experience with us. We owe them for their strength and
beauty in working as women to build a revolutionary
movement that speaks to all the people, for refusing
to shut up and "wait until after the Revolution," for
reminding us again that many male-dominated revolutions
would simply reinstitute oppression under another name.

Sol long as men deny the "rape of Vietnam" and
create conditions that encourage the rape of women
(the objective fact, not just the glorious rhetoric
used to gain power over other people), we can only see
such men as degenerative forms of all the evils they claim to be
attacking.

We know from our own lives how little we have to
lose because women have so little. We know how the des-
peration of women is played on by so-called "profession
al revolutionaries." All women who think of themselves
as revolutionaries, and call mean who claim to be strug-
gling with their male chauvinism should read this and
support our sisters in Seattle.

Dear Sisters,
We are sending you this statement hoping that you will be
able to use it in sharing our experiences with other women.
We acted to strip seven male leaders of their political power
and step them from acting as the spokesmen of the Left.
It is our sisters all over the country, who beginning to
build a movement based on our own experiences and coming out of
our love for each other have given us the strength and power to
fight for our real, not pseudo, liberation.

Please do not except any parts of this article; taken out
of context it doesn't mean as much and it might damage the
conspiracy case. A lawyer on the defense has read the article
and finds nothing incriminating in it.

GANG RAPE IN SEATTLE

The Seattle Liberation Front sponsored the Sky River Rock Fes-
tival. Three women were gang raped. One woman was stabbed at-
tempting to escape. A fourth rape was prevented by a female
"chauvin patrol."

Two days after Sky River, women from the women's liberation
movement interrupted upon an SLF general meeting. We denounced
several men who had fucked us over, used and destroyed people, and
created a white, male supremacist movement in Seattle.

The movement in Seattle is, in many ways, a microcosm of the
movement across the country. The men we denounce are not unu-
sually sexist, brilliant or particularly manipulative leaders in
any sense. All over the country men have defined the Revolution.
People who want to act have had to exist in the context these
men set up. We feel as responsible to sisters across the
country (to explain our action and the history behind it.

It began, in Seattle with the arrival of Michael Lerner from
Berkeley. He set up shop as Radical Marxist Professor at the
University of Washington, and used his classes to inject politics
and liberal guilt into his students. But he was not content with
the notoriety his yippie-style histrionics and flamboyant hair-
iness won him. Lerner used his voyeuristic Berkeley experience
to give him credence, his former roommate Jerry Rubin to give
him glamour and access to the media. The Berkeley Liberation
Program (with a section on the workers tackled on) was bait for
the "groovy people" he wanted to use as organizers.

It worked. A collective was formed, comprised mainly of Ler-
ner's students. Then, on the 19th of January, a meeting was
called, the program was read, and two more collectives began to
pull together.

A lot of us hadn't been in the movement before. We had looked
into existing organizations and dismissed them. SDS was Weather-
Man controlled, the only alternative to SDS, Radical Organizing
Committee, spent its time in intersite debates over meaningless
agendas.

We thought that SLF would give us a chance to connect; that
we collectively structure would allow us autonomy, creativity, and
self-respect.

We might have harmed ourselves less and recognized sooner the
impossibility of acheiving anything good in that context if the
Sundance gang hadn't arrived. Chip Marshall, Robbin, Jeff
Dowd, and Michael Abeles, fresh from Cornell SDS, arrived ready
to take over the Seattle movement. Joe Kelly was to arrive
soon after. Sundance spotted Lerner as a man they could use
when he spoke with Rubin at a rally, three days before the first
SLF meeting. They contacted him the same day and began their
alliance. Lerner provided the "base on campus." Sundance pro-
vided revolutionary models for hero worship, objects for media
infatuation, and much of the energy and direction of S.L.F.

We found our energies absorbed into a whirlwind of "organiza-
tion" and directed by the left-wing media, a all-knowing eye of

The Sundance center. There was no time for us to find and de-
fend what was important to us. The Chicago conspiracy trial was
denigrating: we felt we had to respond.

TVA came and went as a window-smashing melee. We got our riot
credentials when we saw the streets breaking bank windows,
pushing people out of the way out of the rocks falling around them,
while the well-disciplined tactics squad arrested 75 people.

The demonstration got Lerner and Sundance the publicity they
wanted so much. They were made S.L.F. by the media, and the
SLF to the people who poured into the organization afterwards.

Sundance had inspected some youth culture type into the program
and they began the center of the Seattle movement social scene
by arranging huge parties with lots of beer, more, coke, and
girls. By procuring money for expensive, multi-colored leaflets
and programs, they made an immediate impact on a number of hous-
ing projects that the activists had once been a reaction to.

Many established, group who, at first refused to incorporate
themselves as SLF collectives, began to succumb to what was hap-
pening. And, like culture was to happen. People were afraid to
be left out of the Revolution.

To the burgeoning and freaked-out SLF, the Sundance "command
collective made clear the only thing to do was become a profes-
sional revolutionary. So people quit their jobs, dropped out of
school, grew their hair, smoked lots of dope, and hung out with
the people at the Century Tavern.

The mass dropout in the spring made no sense unless we believ-
ed in a teenage revolution -- people had none of the skills nec-
essary to survive. But it did provide Lerner and Sundance with
a large pool of unskilled labor to use as shocktroopers, and people
who depended on them completely for direction in their lives.

And the ethnic and Sunnacle were used to maintain the
merciless sort of hold over people. Bobby Orr showed us the way, spending
hundreds of dollars hard-pressed collectors had earned from an
SLF office, on Sundance rent and beer. Living communism was
exemplified by Sundance, who declared everything those people
have to do to survive "masquered", white exploiting people who
had money or worked (mainly women) to support their incredibly
expensive life styles.

We had wanted to exceed ourselves, to transform ourselves.
Instead we found ourselves striving for collective salvation by
individual style. There was no question of methods, no dis-
cussion of strategy, no confrontation of leadership. In our fren-
zied state of mind, any confusion, any hesitation would hold back
the Revolution. We had developed youth guilt and a pro-fes-
sional revolutionary cult to match our contempt for people who were
trying to return to action, and dual authority. So we tried to be
ourselves in frenetic activity. Chip Marshall laid it down for
us: "I don't care what you do with your hair, as long as you keep
at motion of doing."

A woman who used to be in Sundance described their style well:
"Despite our naive intentions to build ourselves into new men and
women, we found our lives falsely divided into youthful political
organizing and night-time attempts to escape the unthinkable
robots we had become. After evangelical meetings to organize
dormies, after chaotic meetings full of shoutdowns and bullshit,
after scorn and withdrawal demonstrations the pattern was the same:
go home and get drunk, get stoned, get fucked; but by all means
forget. Don't discuss the day activities, how you felt or what
you learned. Escape it, release your tensions. Be prepared for
tomorrow's repeat performance."

It was only later that we realized how desperate we had been,
and how that desperation had been used; only later that we real-
ized how we had been used by the men who attracted us and we were
and what we had to conceive, only later that we realized what SLF
had brought into being. By the time we had begun to work for the
anger, from love, from strength, from freedom, from all but the
illusions of these things, all of us had fought away weakness,
hysteria, and desperation.

But we realized that these things pretty late in the game. Sundance
had already abrogated to themselves the right to choose our lives
and the category of "revolutionary." Their white male arrogance
assured them of their perfect right to do so. And they were rich
in capital; mastery of the jargon, access to money, media and
movement connects.

Still, it was not until the Roach Tavern incident that we fully
realized what it meant to be a woman living and working in a male-
created, male-defined movement.

The Roach Tavern was a bar popular with Seattle bikers and the
Sundance crew; we were at bar which held SLF benefits and
would celebrate only if they were "in." The men wore their
white and small group of leaders from the working class who had
been and a small cadre of leaders from the "insane" that they took
complaints about SLF's patronage of the bar to the only people
who had the power to do anything about it - (Sundance). The fun-
damental leader of Roach leadership was of course, Jo[e?] Kelly,
a senior, he came who had come down soon, "Joe Kelly philosophized while writing
of half the human race, "We can't afford to alienate the bikers."
We stayed in SLF, but we began trying very hard to develop an
alternative. Talking with other women, we agreed that the problems
was not merely that women did the organizing while men made the
speeches. Our humanity was denied to us. Michael Lerner could
talk about the availability of a woman for his bed and so on. Well,
boys, I guess it'll take any page for this one.' (We) make
heard any good niggers--(sic) Mobilizing tokenization.

The "women question" became a topic of conversation for the
men, but with the carefully drawn distinction between women's
liberation - liberals and members - and truly revolutionary

Page 2                                          Vol. 1, No 7       Ain't I

[illegible: This content downloaded from
130.127.238.233 on Tue, 26 Aug 2015 12:27:42 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms]