It Ain't Me Babe  
Dec. 1, 1970  
p. 14  

It is clear that men must change; change behavior, priorities, attitudes... it is clear to us that change of/in the oppressed is different from change of/in the oppressor.  

(Yes, yes, men oppress each other and are oppressed by society, but all men oppress all women; that there are roles is oppressive, and men benefit from these roles willingly.  

Dear Sisters,  

As you well know, one of the least logical putdowns of women who demand their human rights devised by the self-styled logical sex is "they want to be men." You also know that particular statement to be a load of crap.  

I am a transsexual. On the intellectual and emotional levels, I know myself to be a woman; on the physical level, my own body denies me this.  

(He describes his background) ...but here (SF State) I also met Bev. She was different from any girl I'd ever known before - she was a person. She did not play the role games society demands, and more than women - and are destroy-  

The oppressor does not change.  

"When a creature has developed into one thing, he will choose death rather than change into his opposite."  
--from Dune Prophet, by Frank Herbert  

That is the situation of Amerika and of individual men. The way it is now, women are all the things men don't want to be. If the sex act involves a kind of merging, with what has become an opposite, therefore dangerous, how can it be other than anathema, a "thrill"? And yes, there is the danger that this will also be the case between two women, having all those responses and habits built in by now.  

This was one reason I fell in love with her.  

This was two years ago and we've been good friends ever since.  

Bev had the effect of a catalyst on me. When we met she was beginning to “come out" and this dealt a fatal blow to whatever male ego I'd been conditioned to have. She turned me on to my own bisexuality, which led me to realize that all life I'd given a woman's love? which led me to realize flash on the idea that if I really were female, despite my body, then my life made sense, whereas it made no sense otherwise.  

This society does not value or recognize a woman's human personality, especially when it is trapped in a man's body.  

I have already had the chance to live as a woman, and it further convinced me of my femininity. This January I met a woman named Mary at a Gay Lib coffee house. Having a common interest in folk music, we became friends. (I've always fitted in with gay women but not with gay men. This makes sense to me now, but used to be confusing.) When I told her I'd decided I was a transsexual, she dug the idea and said she could really see my being a woman.  

Come the summer, and she invited me to visit in her apartment. I found myself accepted as a woman for the first time in my life. It was wonderful. In the words of Van Morrison; Mary could make me "feel so free, make me feel like me." I let down my defense mechanisms and even with my grotty glasses and all, I was considered a woman almost everywhere I went. I must have looked pretty butch, but I was accepted as a woman without even trying. And I loved it.  

The climax came when Mary and I fell in love. Her advances freaked me out at first; I was so afraid that I would be a disappointment to her because of my body, as she is exclusively gay. But she was able to see beyond my body, loving me for the person I am (see, male chauvinists - it is possible - try it sometime.) Making love was a strange mixture of the joy of giving and receiving love and the frustration of having to put up with my body in its present state.  

At the time of this writing, I am seeing a shrink to get his recommendation to start estrogen treatment as a preparation for sex-change surgery.  

Love,  
Beth  

A woman's love. A woman, especially a woman-identified woman, has some idea (and it clarifies every day) of what that means. It is every detail of life, how it goes down, what the priorities are. It is daily life, something men in general are unfamiliar with, not having lived it.  

It is only "trapped" when the "man" in the body feels there is a contradiction. It does, of course, contradict what society imposes, and any such man will be penalized. He will be called transsexual and treated as ill. He will be offered castration.  

The feminist revolution is to accept the body and destroy the society.  

To make a coarse, working generalization: There are three kinds of men in our society:  
1. Homosexual men  
2. Straight men who are more or less successful in the male role  
3. Straight men who are more or less unsuccessful in the male role.  

Of the three, homosexual men may be said to carry male supremacy a step further than straight men. They dispense with women altogether. It is a working adaptation. The key part being that they adapted. They are an integral part of the system.  

Those men who have been the least successful in the male role or an adaptation of it are the ones for whom change will be more possible. Of course, these will probably be men who are now ignored by other men, and by man-identified women.  

This we don't dig at all as a solution. It is a perverse solution; born of the dynamic that created the society in the first place. That's what most things are that men decide to do to "help."  

We say that to change a man must experience being a woman. Must imitate women. In short, stop being men. This is what this young man (Beth) wants to do, but he cops out by insisting it can be done only in a female body. P.S.: Imitation is a real way to learn. To control us, it is severely repressed and directed in this society. So closely is the male role tied to identity that even a man whose head is woman chooses death (sex change) over acceptance of change.  

We decided to print this letter because it shows the seriousness of the problem.  

But we talked to the young man first. Partially to check out his vibes, partially to see if he would change his mind about the sex change.  

So he dropped in to visit. There was a softness/relaxedness about him that felt good; a giving, a non-stiffness. He did not try to dominate with body English or voice as so many men do, nor did he look through us or patently cope with us as so many homosexual men do. He did not push/pull against our reality. We could see that he was into a higher form of behavior although his idea/understanding of woman was too man-identified, too passive/submissive.  

He still tended to talk in generalizations and abstracts, but it was as though there was only one level of non-understanding to get through instead of the customary two or three.  

And, to be sure, he was still in the position of the male getting attention from women. Any kind being better than none. (Men must learn to cope for themselves and teach each other.)  

Our conversation went around like this:  

Us: We can dig where you're coming from, but we think getting a sex change operation is a cop-out. We women are discovering, making strong, a new reality. Men must start doing the same. You have started. Stick with it. By having a sex change operation you are saying that a person in a male body cannot be a human. We do not accept that as a healthy solution.  

He: The only way I can live as a woman, that is, behave as a woman, is to be totally female.  

Us: Maybe that was true till about a year ago, but now new reality women are emerging and will reinforce you; the more you go through your changes, the more meshing with us will be possible. And during the same time you can try finding other men who can be in your reality, although they might not have thought of the label "transsexual" to identify themselves.  

He: But basically I don't like my body...  

Us: It shouldn't matter whether one is born with female or male genitalia. That's our point. As your new reality emerges, as you are able to live it to any degree, you should be able to feel differently about your body. That's what happens to us.  

He began to agree that it was certainly worth trying, and if what we say starts to happen, he will not have the operation. We shall see what happens.  

If any men want to get in touch with him, write care of this paper.