ish,

History bears this out. Certainly, most of you will agree that recreational drug use will not spontaneously disappear, at least not in the foreseeable future. The use of marijuana, hashish, cocaine, and opium, to name a few drugs, has persisted in various parts of the world for centuries.

The only way that drugs might conceivably disappear from the scene is as a result of enforced prohibition by the government. Again, history teaches the lesson, which government authorities ought to have learned by this time, that enforced prohibition only creates criminals by driving drug traffic underground.

PEACE FOR US.

THE PLANT

Cannabis

Vol. 2, No. 2

EXPANDING AWARENESS

Dye Summit Conference

By Trudy Minkoff

BUFFALO, N.Y.—Minds were shattered in Buffalo as notables of the underground—cultural, medical, and legal divisions—met for a "virtual summit conference" on pot and acid. The drug symposium, directed by LEMAR International, hosted an “impressive array of specialists" including Timothy Leary, Allen Ginsberg, Leslie Fiedler, and yips Hoffman and Rubin.

After two days of sessions in which a lot of experts agreed that the biggest problem with drugs is the shitty drug laws and the bad research, the Crazies entered, vociferously led by a contingent from the New York City Motherfuckers. As the Buffalo Courier-Express straight media freaked out: "The group whose name is a vicious obscenity offered some of the more lively comments, but their remarks cannot be quoted here or anywhere else where common sense prevails."

The conference coincidentally opened the day after the conviction of Bruce Beyer, one of the "Buffalo Nine," charged with criminal assault during Resistance action here last summer. The political temperature was high. A student strike at the University of Buffalo, now in progress, was about to break as the conference began.

Cops, MDs, professors, judges, and narcs abounded at a series of meetings at which every aspect of psychedelic drugs was hashed out. Pharmacologist Andrew Weil, friendly researcher in grass, announced his discovery that stoned housewives don't cry while peeling onions. Flash... The eye irritant in onions is chemically related to the stuff that affects your eyes in tear gas! Further studies are ongoing.

Neuropsychiatrist Harry Herman praised pot's value in psychotherapy, saying that it "wakes one from the groggy, foggy, so-called normal awareness." J.W. Spellman, stoned expert on Asian studies, pointed out that further research is good and well but now irrelevant to the thousands of victims incarcerated by bad drug laws.

Establishment types had a hard time with the assorted pro-pot intellectuals and members of the hip community. Irving Lang, counsel for the New York State Narcotics Addiction Control Commission, tried to convince more than a thousand heads that there is a "real" reason, unrelated to the United States’ madness, that "all the civilized world" has anti-pot laws.

Federal narc Benjamin Fitzgerald talked about the instability of crazed heads: "Psychosis is a euphemism for insanity." Fitzgerald said that it is better to bust an old pro than to "take your life in your own hands" with a pot head. "A Mafioso knows how to take a bust!"

Respectable structured conference situations like this one are basically bullshit in light of the fact that people are in jail, and legal pot does not mean revolution. What we are turning on about is a new, free man in a new world, and there are big bunches who would shoot us dead before it happens.

The conference was an interesting collection of "legitimate" authorities, sincerely doing their legitimate things. There are a lot of people in this country winding their ways through the courts and laboratories.

Meanwhile, the kids are getting together. The MC5 was wailing, and people were blowing grass and crawling out of their rows of seats into loving piles. The cops stood in a corner, baffled.

Take on brownie mix: add essentials—eggs, butter, milk.

Add 1/4 cup extra milk, mix very smooth.

Then add 1 ounce strained grass for inch square cake pan.

THC

San Francisco

Talkin’ 'bout Dope

GRASS

Ecuadorian (?) and gold (?)—fairly good, $15 an ounce.

HASH

Peru brownish-green, Indian, heavily opiated, very good but hard to find—$6-10 a gram.

Lebanese-blond—good, but going in pounds only at present—$900 per.

White caps, same as old THC, very good—$4.

ACID

Purple double domes—barrel-size—good, intense trip, some. STP, dark purple—$5-$7.

Blue smears—light blue smear on vitamin C tab—good, moderately intense to heavy. But—can be easily faked and the smear may be chipped, lessening intensity. Be sure of your connection and check the smear for chips.

Green double domes—same as purple—very little speed—good.