Survival

The Diaphragm

By Marlene Wicks

This is a serial column written to serve as a forum for our physical and mental well-being. The recent "pill" hearings have unsettled us all. We must turn to other means of birth control until we have more information regarding oral contraceptives. I'll start with the diaphragm.

The diaphragm, also called a pessary, is a birth control device and the safest in terms of the woman's health of all the devices known. It is designed to cover the opening to the uterus (cervix), and with experience will be as easy to insert as a tampon. It is made of soft rubber and looks like half a lemon peel with the rim rolled back upon itself. Inside the rim, there is either a coil spring or a flat spring which may be compressed on opposite sides into the shape of a slipper for insertion.

Vaginal creams or jellies are available and should be used with the diaphragm. They come in tubes like toothpaste and are spread around the rim and inside the cup. These preparations help destroy male sperm, are impenetrable by semen, and act as suction to keep the diaphragm in position.

You can insert the diaphragm standing, squatting, or lying down. Hold and compress the diaphragm between the thumb, index, and third fingers. The index finger is placed inside the compressed diaphragm. Insert the diaphragm as far back as it will go behind the cervix. Then push the near part of the rim up behind the pubic bone in front. The diaphragm will have sprung into position to cover the cervix. Check this by running your forefinger around the rim and over the dome to be sure.

Mechanical inserters are sometimes prescribed as an alternate to the coil spring diaphragm. The diaphragm is placed on the introducer, which looks like a curved plastic stick, fitting the rim into the end groove, then hooking the opposite rim over the appropriate notch. Ease the introducer along the floor of the vagina, as you would a tampon, until it can no longer be pushed in. To remove the introducer after the diaphragm is in place, give it a quarter turn left or right, which disengages it from the diaphragm. Then, gently withdraw the introducer. The near rim of the diaphragm is then pushed up behind the pubic bone. Check as before to make sure the dome is covering the cervix.

When inserted properly, neither you nor your mate will be aware of the diaphragm in the vagina, and there will be no dulling of sensation. The contraceptive preparation is not harmful to the vaginal canal nor harmful if ingested orally.

It should remain in place for from six to eight hours after intercourse. Intercourse may be repeated without removing the diaphragm; however, an applicator filled with the contraceptive cream or jelly must be inserted into the diaphragm each time.

A douche may be taken at the time of removal, half before and half after. To remove the diaphragm, a finger is hooked under its edge and it is drawn out. The douche will wash away any remaining semen and eliminate the odor, which is offensive to some women. Opinions differ on the use of a douche, especially concerning whether or not to add medication to the water. Some doctors feel that douching is not necessary at all. Douches will be discussed in another column.

Diaphragms must be fitted to your cervix. This is very important; many women have just gone to a drug store, bought the wrong size, and become pregnant. If the diaphragm is too small or too large, it is more likely to become dislodged. The size of your cervix will change after giving birth to a child and may change again after a few months. It must be refitted both times. The doctor will fit your diaphragm and either write a prescription for you to obtain one from a drugstore or sell you one from his office. The approximate cost is $3 to $5, and with good care lasts several years.

Rubber deteriorates with age. Prior to use, the diaphragm should be filled with water or held up to a light to detect any holes or cracks. After use, wash it with mild soap and water and dry it to prevent early deterioration. A light dusting of talc will help keep the rubber from sticking together.

When the diaphragm is properly fitted and used as directed, it is almost impossible for a woman to become pregnant. We must get over our shame of "planning for sex" if we are going to protect ourselves from unwanted pregnancies.

Readers' opinions or questions are encouraged. Let us hear from you.

Psychology of the Diaphragm

By Alison Sand

"My doctor told me that if using a diaphragm were a test of mental ability, I'd be given a moron rating."

That quote is unique to one woman's experience with one strange gynecologist, but it is, unfortunately, revealing. Most women don't receive adequate instruction or encouragement from their doctor and leave his office insecure about the device itself and about their ability to use it.

Learn to use your diaphragm before you need to use it. Make time for a thorough reading of the preceding article and the instruction pamphlet that will come with your diaphragm. Then take that written material and all the diaphragm paraphernalia into the bathroom, close the door, and practice.

Practice unabashedly. All alone, you are acquiring a skill that is roughly comparable in difficulty to learning chords on a guitar, knitting, or rolling a joint, and a thousand times more crucial to your emotional and physical well-being.

Check out the diagrams. Explore yourself sans guilt or embarrassment. It's perfectly all right for your fingers to be exploring your vagina in search of your cervix. In fact, it's really a turn-on to locate and to recognize and be able to understand the function of those important parts of yourself.

More important, possibly, than your confidence in your ability to use a diaphragm as a contraceptive is your matter-of-fact acceptance of your right to use it. Men should take their cues from you. Be righteous about using that diaphragm. You have assumed the major responsibility for contraception. He can be grateful for that and supportive of you.

Abortion counselors too often hear this refrain: "My old man gets angry when I interrupt our lovemaking to put in my diaphragm." If your gentle interjection of reality offends his sense of aesthetics, his interest is clearly in some sort of fantasy event and not in happy, honest lovemaking with flesh and blood.