BOOKS

The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan  
The Golden Notebook by Doris Lessing  
The Second Sex by Simone de Beauvoir  
Century of Struggle by Eleanor Flexner  
An Analysis of Human Sexual Response by Ruth and Edward Brecher  
(pp. 15-108, summary of Master-Johnson study, pp. 125-174 history of the idea of female orgasm)  

Blue Collar Marriage by Mirra Komarovsky  

The Potential of Woman by Farber and Wilson  

The Woman in America by Daedalus Library  

Working Man's Wife by Lee Rainwater  

READ...

ARTICLES (and where to get them)

ON SEX

"The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm" by Anne Koedt  
Available from New England Free Press, 791 Tremont St.,  
Boston, Mass. 02118 10¢  

"Understanding Orgasm" by Sue Lydon  
Ramparts Nov. 1968 issue of  

PSYCHOLOGY

"Kinder, Küche, Kirche as Scientific Law" by Naomi Weisstein  
Available N.E.F.P. (above) 15¢  

"Liberation of Women" by Laura Limpus  
N.E.F.P. 10¢  

"Training Women to Know Their Place, The Non-conscious Ideology"  
from Women's Liberation Basement Press  

ECONOMICS OF OPPRESSION  
"The Place of American Women" by Joan Jordan  
N.E.F.P. 15¢  
"American Women, Their Use and Abuse" by Lyn Wells  
N.E.F.P. 20¢  
"Working Women, the Forgotten Third of the Working Class"  
by Ilene Winkler available from International Socialists  

"The Myth of the Inferiority of Women" by Evelyn Reed  
N.E.F.P. 15¢  

"The Origin of the Family" by Friedrich Engels. Segment reprint  
N.E.F.P. 35¢  
"I Am Furious (Female)" by The Women's Caucus of  
the New University Conference available from  
Radical Education Project, Box 561-A, Detroit,  
Michigan 48232  

WOMEN AND THE MOVEMENT

"Toward a Women's Liberation Movement" by Beverly Jones  
and Judith Brown N.E.F.P. 20¢  

"Female Liberation as the Basis for Social Revolution" by  
Roxanne Dunbar N.E.F.P. 10¢  

"Bread and Roses" by Kathy McAfee and Myrna Wood in Leviathan  
#3 N.E.F.P. 50¢  

"Grand Coolie Dam" by Marge Piercy in Leviathan #6  
N.E.F.P. 50¢  

GENERAL INTEREST

"The Politics of Housework" by Pat Mainardi  
N.E.F.P. 5¢  

Ellen Willis's article in Jan. 1970 New York Review of Books  
passing for a review of "Easy Rider" and "Alice's Restaurant"  
(actually on W.L. and the counterculture)  

WOMEN'S LIBERATION MOVEMENT PUBLICATIONS

Women's Liberation Basement Press Pamphlet series  

1. "Introduction to Women's Liberation" by Peggy White 5¢  

2. "Sisters in Oppression" by Karen Burt 10¢  

3. "The Small Group" Three articles by P. Allen, L. O'Connor &  
L. Bunding 15¢ Temporarily: WL Basement Press  
c/o WL Office 2398 Bancroft, Berkeley.  

"No More Fun and Games" Journal of Female Liberation  
several issues available $1.00 each (371 Somerville  
Ave., Somerville, Mass. 02143)  

"Women, a Journal of Liberation" Fall issue on "Inherent  
Nature or Cultural Conditioning" $1.25 (3011 Guilford  
Ave., Baltimore, MD. 21218)  

"Questions I Should Have Answered Better" A guide for women who  
dare to speak publicly by Sally Wood Vasey (406  

P.O. 910, Berkeley, Calif. 94701) "A Forrest Ave, Chattanooga, Tenn."  
"Political Economy of Women's Liberation" by Margaret Benston  
"Tooth and Nail" Bay Area Journal several issues available  

in Sept. 1969 Monthly Review (116 W. 14th St. N.Y.C. 10011) 25¢ each available at local newsstands and through  

15¢; Women's Liberation Basement Press (see above)  
"Women as a Minority Group" by Helen Hacker Bobbs-Merrill Co.  

4300 W. 62nd St., Indianapolis, 6, Ind. 25¢ For an extended list of Women's Liberation Literature write  
POLITICAL THEORY to D.C. Women's Liberation c/o Sharon Wolfson, 1520 New  
"Hampshire Ave., N.W., Washington D.C. 20036  

MOVIES  
BERKELEY WOMEN'S LIBERATION PROJECT COMMITTEES  
The Telegraph Cinema is showing  

"The Miracle Worker" Feb. 5-11.  

This is the story of Helen Keller  

who many people don't know was a  

socialist. "College isn't the place  

to go for ideas," "I don't give a  

damn about semi-radicals," "The wise  
see, fools who sit in the high places  

fail to see that in revolutionary  
times vital issues are not settled  

by statutes, decrees, and authorities,  

but in spite of them," said she.  
In the second theatre they are  

showing "The Philadelphia Story"  

in which Katherine Hepburn plays the  

slave-goddess to absolute perfection.  

The total lack of choice of a mate/  

true love for daughters of the ruling  

class is abundantly clear in this  

Feb. 7  

Wesley 11:00 am.  

Bancroft & Dana  

WOMEN PRISONERS  

They are gathering information on various prisons in  
the area, numbers of lawyers, bail funds, emergency numbers,  
etc. Also experiences of women who have been in jail that  
might be helpful to others in knowing what to expect.  

POSTER COMMITTEE  

They are working on silk screening posters for day care,  
abortions, women folk heroes, & witch posters. Will teach  
anyone interested in learning to silk screen.  

WELFARE RIGHTS  

Working to keep the Welfare Dept. from relocating people  
to the Oakland office. Also working to support women who are  
being hassled by the welfare workers.  

Organizing women in  
high schools, junior  
colleges, & universities  

Workshops  
BAY AREA W.I.B.E.  

PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE  

Pamphlet committee works in conjunction with W.L.B.P.  
to find material for and publish pamphlets on Women's  
Oppression and Liberation  

Newspaper committee works on this paper  

ABORTION COMMITTEE  
Working to gather abortion information and toward  
the legalization of abortion through petitions.  

DAY CARE - FEMALE LIBERATION ALMANAC  

Working with AFSCME for the establishment of a day care  
center on the University of California campus for students  
and employees.  

Feb. 3, 1965, Every now and then  
we should recall Mona Hutchins, who  
on Feb. 3, 1965 (then a 19-year-old  
student at U.C. Berkeley) became the  
first woman to ride on the outside  
steps of an S.F. cable car. "This is  
ridiculous," is all she said to the  
hassled Muni Railway official who  
tried to make her step inside. As  
Miss Hutchins stubbornly held her  
ground and her grip, the embarrassed  
official discovered that the "law"  
against women riding on the outside  
was not only unwritten but non-existent.  

(from Herb Caen)  

What he didn't tell us is that  
Mona Hutchins was one of the three  
women on the steering committee  

of the Free Speech Movement the  
previous year.  

For further information on any of these committees call or  
write the Berkeley Women's Liberation office:  
2398 Bancroft Ave., Berkeley, Calif. 94705 (843-9900)  

About two years ago women in the radical movement all over the country  
began to meet together weekly in small groups to discuss our common  
problems. We talked about sex, about the men in our lives, about our  
childhoods, our schooling, our families. Our stories were remarkably  
similar. Definite patterns of experience emerged. What we had all  
thought to be a personal problem, the result of our own particular  
situation, was common to everyone. We realized that we had all been  
suffering from the damage society inflicts on an oppressed group. We  
were feeling the results of being a woman in a society designed by and  
for men.  

Today we are still an embryo movement with no settled structure or  
direction. Small groups remain our basic organizational unit. Most women  
see this as the most effective means of "raising consciousness" -- the  
process of discovering more and more about the dynamics of women's  
oppression. However, these discoveries in and of themselves do not liberate  
women. We have learned that real institutions in this society are  
responsible for our oppression. Thus we are a political movement seeking  
to transform social institutions. We are still in the process of developing  
our political analysis and defining the political projects we will undertake.  
Today, we are only beginning.  

"Feb. 15, 1820, Susan B. Anthony  
was born. The motto of her paper,  
which she put out together with Eliz-  
abeth Cady Stanton, called "Revolu-  
tion," was "Men, their rights and  
nothing more; women, their rights  
and nothing less."  

Send to: W.L. Office  
2398 Bancroft Ave.  
Berkeley, Calif. 94704  

SUBSCRIBE TO "CLE AIN'T ME BABE"  
Enclosed please find $_ for subs.  

($1.80 for 6 mos.)  

by Laura X  

Name  
Address  

This content downloaded from  
76.210.38.222 on Tue, 25 Feb 2025 01:59:45 UTC  
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms