News

SAT ST ST SB ET I SS TS ST ESS

Gridiron Protest

by Rachel Scott

WASHINGTON: Women including WITCH will protest male chauvinism at the Gridiron Club dinner at the Statler-Hilton Hotel on March 14.

Publicized as a "strictly white-tie" affair, the dinner is given annually by the Gridiron Club, 50 of Washington's most prestigious male journalists, for this year's list of Important Men including President Nixon, Vice-President Agnew, and the Supreme Court justices.

Women in the press and in politics are not invited. For the most part, press women take a sour grapes attitude toward the affair. "Who needs them anyway?" said a reporter for the Washington Star. "They're so deadly boring."

Another woman journalist said she agreed with the protest but could not picket. "I'd lose my job," she said. Set is president of the Gridiron.

One Club member derided the protest by saying that women are not being discriminated against since wives and girlfriends are invited to a reception the following day.

Separate but equal seems to be pushed by these so-called VIP's in more places than the South.

Women Oppose Carswell

by Coletta Reid

WASHINGTON, D.C. On January 28, Betty Friedan, president of NOW (National Organization for Women), testified in Senate hearings against Supreme Court nominee G. Harold Carswell for his sexism (sex discrimination).

On October 13, 1969, Judge Carswell voted to uphold Martin Marietta Corporation which had refused to hire Mrs. Ida Phillips because she had preschool-age children.

The company denied sex discrimination although it said it would hire a man with preschool-age children. Judge Carswell supported an opinion that advanced the doctrine of "sex plus" - that discrimination against a woman with children is different than simple discrimination against women and is not barred under Title 7 of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Judge Carswell's ruling will allow discrimination against those who need jobs most. Over 85 percent of working mothers of preschool children work for their very survival.

Later, in New York, other women joined Mrs. Friedan in a press conference to denounce Carswell and call upon women to use their political strength to defeat his nomination. "Women must inform their senators that if they confirm an enemy of women, who would make it impossible for women to have both children and jobs, we will work for their defeat," said Mrs. Friedan.

Historical First

Mrs. Phillips' fight for equality is but one example of the many women across the country who are growing increasingly aware of their status as second-class citizens. This growing awareness is expressed in women's willingness to take political action to secure their rights.

NOW's opposition to Carswell is the first time in history that a Supreme Court nominee has been opposed on the grounds of his prejudice against women. Mrs. Phillips' case is being appealed to the Supreme Court - a harbinger of the next decade in which women's rights issues will preoccupy the Supreme Court. In view of this fact, the women of America cannot accept the appointment of a sexist judge to the Supreme Court of the United States.

Equal Rights Amendment

by Rachel Scott

WASHINGTON D.C.: Betty Friedan, President of NOW (National Organization of Women), led a press conference on February 17. One hundred women from New York, Boston, Pittsburgh, and Washington joined with her to demand Senate action on the Equal Rights for Women Amendment to the Constitution.

The proposed 26th amendment provides that "Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex."

The amendment was first introduced in 1923 by the National Women's Party but has been "in committee" for 47 years. Presently sponsored by 70 senators, it is stalled in the Senate Subcommittee for Constitutional Amendments, chaired by Senator Birch Bayh.

Mrs. Friedan said women's demands for constitutional rights are particularly timely considering the recent nomination of sexist judge Harold Carswell to the Supreme Court. "That shows we can't rely on the whims of prejudiced male judges," she said.

"We must have constitutional protection. Our major push in the 1970s will be for constitutional equality for women.

"It's been a long, long struggle. Today is the 50th anniversary of the 19th Amendment. Now, and better late than never, we will unite to use our political power to defeat the enemies.

"We don't want roses on Mother's Day. We want our rights under the Constitution."

Photo by Rachel Scott
Betty Friedan and women from NOW at the Equal Rights Amendment Press Conference

This content downloaded from 130.127.238.233 on Mon, 30 Jun 2025 19:48:03 UTC. All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms.

Women Win Legal Case

Last September, women won a case contesting the legality of state protection laws which have been used by companies to keep women in low-paying jobs.

Three women were fired by Colgate-Palmolive on the grounds that the law prevented women from lifting more than 35 pounds, which was a requirement for their jobs. The women were replaced by men. The women first lost their case, then went on to win an appeal on the basis of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination in employment based on sex.

The Court further declared that Colgate "must notify all of its workers that each of them who desires to do so will be afforded a reasonable opportunity to demonstrate his or her ability to perform more strenuous jobs on a regular basis. Each employee who is able to so demonstrate must be permitted to bid on and fill any position to which his or her seniority may entitle him or her."

Jobs that were previously reserved for men at the Indiana plant were paid at wage rates which began at the highest rate payable for jobs open to women.

The effect of the Court's ruling is to give women equal opportunity to bid for better-paying jobs on the basis of their individual capabilities and to prohibit their exclusion from these jobs because of sex. The ruling is a victory for the Colgate women workers, for the volunteer women attorneys from Human Rights for Women, Inc. in Washington, D.C., who represented them, and for all women in industrial jobs.

WITCH

by Anne Hutchinson

WASHINGTON: Today, February 27, WITCH's descended upon the Panel on Population Control of the International Development Conference sponsored by the government agencies and U.S. corporations "active" in the Third World.

During a speech by Sen. Ralph Yarborough of Texas, WITCH's rose from the audience chanting: "We are witches/ We have come to yell/ You population experts/ Can all go to hell. You think you can cure/ All the world's ills/ By forcing poor people/ To take your unhealthy pills."

The stunned audience watched as WITCH's portrayed Pres. Nixon answering the cries of the poor women of the world for free food, free housing, free health care, free land, and freedom.

He beat them back with birth control pills and physical blows.

The WITCH's then brewed the final contraceptive: one for the white male establishment. They chanted, "Now it is time to control the white western male," as beer, powder puffs, and other pacifiers of women were tossed into a cauldron.

After a brief skirmish with Sen. Yarborough and the chairman of the AID Birth Control Program, the microphone was seized by the WITCH's, the brew was passed around to the men in the audience, and leaflets were distributed denouncing population control rather than the redistribution of resources.

Off Our Backs/February 27, 1970/5