It Aint Me Babe  Dec. 1. 1970  D-14

LETTER
FROM
A
TRANS-
SEXUAL
??

Dear Sisters,

As you well know, one of the least
logical pettudons of women who demand their
human rights devised by the self styled
"logical sex" is "they want to be men".  You
also know that particular piece of
also know that particular statement to be
load of crap.

I am a transsexual.  On the intellect-
ual and emotional level, I know myself to
be a woman; on the physical level, my own
body denies me this.

(the desribe his background)

I, but here (SE STATES) I also met Bev. She
was different from any girl I'd ever known
before - she was a person.  She did not play
play the role-games society demands, and
this was one reason I fell in love with her.
This was the type size area and we've been good
friends ever since.

bev had the effect of a catalyst on me.
When we met she was beginning to "come out"
and this deal a fatal blow to whatever male
ego I'd been conditioned to have. She
turned me on to my own bisexuality, which
led me to realise that all my life I'd given
in a woman's love, without realizing it.  It
also began on the idea that if I really
were female, despite my body, then my life
made sense; whereas it made no sense other
wise.

This society does not value or recognize
a woman's human personality, especially
when it is trapped in a man's body.

I have already had the chance to live in the body feels there is a contradiction.
as a woman, and I'm further convinced me of it does of course contradict what society
my femininity. This January I met a woman imposes, and any such man will be penalized.
named Mary at a Gay Aid coffee house. He will be called Transsexual and treated
Having a common interest in social rights, as ill. He will be offered castration.
we became friends. I've always felt that The feminist revolution is accept the
with gay women but not with gay men. This body and destroy the society. - BMC

makes sense to me now, but used to be con
fused. When I told her I'd decided I
was a transsexual, she dug the idea and
said she could really see my being a woman.

Come the summer, and she invited me to
visit in her apartment. I found myself acc
epted as a woman for the first time in my
life. It was wonderful. In the words of
Van Morrison, Mary could make me "feel so
free", make me feel like ME. I let down
my defenses, mechanisms and even with my
grotesk glasses and all, I was considered a
woman almost everywhere I went. I must
have looked pretty touchy, but I was
accepted as a woman with out even trying.
And I loved it.

The climax came when Mary and I fell in
love. Her advances freaked me out at first.
I was so afraid that I would be a different
someone to her because of my body, as she
had been with gay men. But she was able to
see beyond my body, loving me for the
person I am - free, some achievements - a
possible "try it sometime". Making love in
was a strange mixture of the joy of giving
and receiving love and the frustration of
having to put up with my body in its
present state.

At the time of this writing, I am
seeking a penis to get his recommendation
to start estrogen treatment as a pre-
paration for sex-change surgery.

Love,
Beth

[box]
"When a creature has develop
ped into one thing, he will
choose death rather than
change into the opposite."
- Franz Riepergtry [illegible]
That is the situation of
America and of individuals
men. The way it is now,
women are all the things
men dont want to be. If the
sex act involves a kind of
merging, with what has been
care for opposite, therefore,
dangerous, how can it be
other than insane, a
"thrill"!! And yes there is
the danger that this will
also be the case between
two women, having all those
responses and habits built
in by now.
[/box]

A woman's love. A woman, especially a
woman-identified woman, has some idea(and
it clarifies every day) of what char
means. It is every detail of life, how
it goes down, what the priorities are. It
is daily life, something men in general
are unfamiliar with, not having lived it.
- BMC

[box]
To make a coarse; working generalization:
There are three kinds of men in our
society:
homosexual men
straight who are more or less
successful in the male role
straight men who are more or less
unsuccessful in the male role.
Of the three, homosexual men may be
said to carry male supremacy a step further
than straight men. They dissension with
women altogether. It is a working adaptation
on. The key part being that they adapted.
They are an integral part of the system.

Those men who have been the least
successful in the male role or an adap-
tation of it are the ones for whom these
will be more possible. Of course, these
will probably be men who are now ignored
by other men, and by man-identified
women.
[/box]

OUR
RESPONSE

We say that to change a man must exper
ience being a woman. Must imitate women.
In short, stop being men. This is what
this young man (Beth) wants to do, but he
must be "imitating" it can be done only
in a female body. P.S. I agree that it is
not enough to "learn" to be female, to be
sincerely seperated and directed in this
society. So closely is the male role tied
to identity that even a man who has learnt
to "be woman" immediately loses [illegible]
acceptance of change.
We decided to print this letter because
it shows the seriousness of the problem.
But we talked to the young man first.
Finally a check out his life; partially
to see if he would change his mind about
the sex change.

So he dropped in to visit. There was
a softness/relaxed about him that
did not seem to come from his body. He
did not try to dominate with body english
or voice so many men do, nor did he look
through or partially ignore us as so
many homosexual men do. He did not push/
pull against our reality. We could see
that he was into a higher form of behavior
that would take (identifying? ) many
time to man-identified, too passive/weak
- BMC

We still tended to talk in generalizations
and also &cetera, but it was also clear
there was only one level of rnonder-
standing to get through instead of the
open arms of so many men.

And, to be sure, it was still in the
position of the male getting attention
from women. Any kind being better than
none. (Men must learn to cope for them
selves and teach each other.)

Our conversation went around like this:
we had seen change, we were coming from,
but we think getting a sex change ought
to be a go-out. We women can decide
everything, making strong, a new reality. Men
must start doing this as we might. You have
started Stick with it. By having a
change operation over again that is
only an act of basic sex to the man. We
do not accept that as healthy solution.

The: the only way I can live as a women,
is talk, behave as a woman, to be a
totally female.

Mary: Maybe that was true till about a
YEAR AGO, BUT NOW NEW REALITY WHICH ARE
EMERGING and will be reinforced by the more
you go through your changes, the more
things which get into your possibilities. And
other men who can be your reality,
though they may have to have thought of
the later "ment" may not be identified with
selves.

He: But basically I don't like my body...

We: It shouldn't matter whether one is
born with female or make genitalia. That's
our point. As your new reality emerges, as
you are able to live in to any degree, you
should be able to feel differently about
your body. Than. That's what happens to

He began to agree that it was certainly
worth a try. (We will be way starts to
happen, will not have the operation, he
shall see what happens.

If any men want to get in touch with
him, write care of this paper.