4

THE FORMULA OF SEXUAL MAGICK
USED IN ALEISTER CROWLEY'S CULT
PARTICULARLY IN THE O.T.O.

By Kenneth Grant

The thesis of Tantra, especially of the Vam-
hayana (or left-hand rites involving women), is
based upon the balanced intensity of active and
passive reactions in the human orgasm.
The reactions set up in the brain during this
process produce a series of transcendental ex-
periences similar to those which occur in the
mystic state. In yoga the kundalini serpent is
the symbol of the reproductive energy; in Tan-
tra this energy is personified as the god and his
consort. The union of the male and female prin-
ciples, and the ecstatic orgasm which accompanies
it, are the ritual equivalents of the cosmic act
which brings forth the world. The aim of Tan-
tric practice is to convert the sexual energy into
spiritual light by means of special meditations,
chantings and techniques. Crowley accepted
this symbolism, but invested it with a new met-
aphysical framework and a new ceremonial
technique which were characteristic of his
magical system.

The Lecrercq rites, for example, were con-
ceived as the consummation of a mystery which
had for its object the birth of a spiritual being in
the microcosm of the adept. The formula was
expressed in certain symbolic acts, in the re-
citation of sacred words, and in the protracted
practice of the sexual act under deliberate magi-
cal intention. In this connection Crowley in-
troduced the word "magick" to designate the
intentional use of natural forces for spiritual
ends. Magick is for him the Science and Art of
causing Change to occur in conformity with Will.

The O.T.O., of which he was a principal
figure, adopted many of the symbolic forms and
ceremonies of older initiatory orders but em-
phasised the sexual formula as the central
instrument of initiation. The E.G.C. (Ecclesia
Gnostica Catholica) ritual contains certain pran-
tial elements which are intended to express the
mystical meaning of the Mass in terms of the
new Aeon. The Mass of the Phoenix, as con-
ceived by Crowley, is a eucharistic drama in
which the elements of sex and death are trans-
muted into a sacrament of spiritual renewal.

[illegible]

[illegible]

[illegible]

[illegible]

[illegible]

[illegible]

[illegible]

[illegible]