commentary

[illegible]

female pop flop

The world of popular music is not
wholly relegated to the foolish and of-
fensive; but, on the other hand, these
factions are quite impressively repre-
sented. And of the handful of women in
the field, most fall into these cate-
gories.

Talents, skill, wit, guts and intel-
ligence far and failingly are not
what make a female pop star. The audi-
ence that can expect these things from
Dylan, the Band, the Beatles, and the
Stones obviously does not applaud Joni
Mitchell, Janis Joplin, Anita Jan, Mama
Cass and Judy Collins for the same rea-
sons. These women are not consummate
musical artists (name one who is a bril-
liant instrumentalist), and neither are
most of them human beings of special
interest.

While there is, indeed, a market for
good music, good songs and interesting
practitioners of both, those do not ac-
count for the popularity of someone like
Joni Mitchell. Her stardom rests from
a public taste, taste formulated to man-
ipulate by the mass media. This gen-
eration of neo-Romantics is not for the
artist who remains with a dry, thin
world of poetry has accordingly provided
us with Rod McKuen's greeting-card wet
dreams, the world of pop music with
Leonard Cohen, whose forehead [illegible]
Mitchell sprang, full-grown and snivel-
ling.

Not only is Joni Mitchell a very
bad--almost supremely bad--poet, but she
plays a pretty bad guitar, (albeit in
quality but pure) and she paints a
picture of herself on an album cover.
One imagines her sitting pensively at a
plain piano in a room strewn with gir-
lish clutter, while the spring rain fil-
ters past against the window pane.
Choked with sentiment, she puts pen to
paper and writes: "Rolls and flows of
angel hair/and ice-cream castles in the
air/And feathered canyons everywhere..."

The more you hear of her work, the
more you're bound to suspect that such
drivel isn't simply the work of a de-
fective. The little "Clouds of Free,"
the "Playground Song" and "For Free"
phases you? [illegible] are not charm-
ing; they are pathetic. She is an un-
even and embarrassingly patronizing at-
tempt to combine the unacceptable with
sentimentality, the preposterous with
some real poetic feeling. In short, she
is not necessarily something one wants to

Janis Joplin provides an alterna-
tive to Joni Mitchell's passive delicacy.
But she has no innate or acquired musi-
cality--something I expect in a singer-
trading-instead on appealing bits of
her device of oppressedness to entertain-
ers by simply screaming or tastelessly
mushing up the lyrics--what the hell did
she do to "Summertime?"

"Janis refers to what she sings as
'the blues,' but it is an hysterical
mockery of blues tradition and blues
style. Just listen to Big Mama Thornton,
Memphis Minnie, Ida Cox, Bessie Smith--
those women were musically sensitive and
inventive. Raw, formless, monofacial
emotion is not blues.

More importantly, those formidable
women had dignity--something Janis Joplin
never hear of. Stamping, grinning,
shaking her ass, yelling, "I NEED A MAN
TO LOVE ME!" she is a mesmerizing sight,
but so are new sophomores of Charles Manson.
It is less annoying than Joni Mitchell's
self-conscious sentiment, perhaps because
Janis is active and aggressive. It is
erotic, in a way, to see a female Elvis
let loose--but Elvis could sing, and his
gravitating was not senseless defianty
It was calculated. You have to be a fair
greater artist than Janis to use your
pain at the folks so that it is not mere
exhibitionism.

Why be so harsh? Why expect so
much? Why care that Janis is the
world's most pretentious teenager? If
Mama Cass is a big zero, so what? Why
isn't it enough that Buffy Saint-Marie
and Julie Driscoll really sing the hell
out of a song once in a while? What
should Judy Collins have besides a nice
voice?

It matters because these women are
the best sellers in the field. These
women are promoted by the forces that
govern pop music because they, and their
images, sell. Their images rest on the
myth of female inferiority: women are
overly sentimental, their poetry precious
and self-pitying; women do not make good
musicians though they 're often pretty
and sometimes even have nice voices.
The music industry capitalizes on the
false image of the "sufferer" who re-
inforces it with each sale. Women like
Janis Joplin who do not fit the stereo-
typed image "make it" by imitating a man.
It is no wonder that many women in the
field feel that the canners of foolish-
ness and offensiveness are the only ways
open to them.

By Laura Hummel

advice column

Advice columns are one of the most
obvious ways the Establishment press
keeps the status quo. In these columns
deviant behaviour is severely criticized
and the individual is advised to consult
either clergy or psychiatrist. The
Women's Liberation Collective has writ-
ten this response to an exchange of
letters on birth control.

Dear Ann Landers:
Because there were so many of you, Mother
had a dependent on help from the older
girls, dependent on me.

My mother was overweight and peevish.
Every night our mother used to cry. was
[illegible] until we were 21. I remember
one night my mother said she wished she
had a doctor give her preach [illegible]
I was 15 and married a wonderful man
who I had an affair with the [illegible]
I had children when I was 18.
Have you any advice about the problem
and how to cope with the children and
home?

Sincerely,
Annette (age 30)

Dear Ann:
Your feelings about children are
familiar to us. If you want, you can
try to be "good" or "better" or to stop be-
ing "bad"--and you can end up with
a life of guilt.

Dear Ann:
The world has enough people in it.
Don't feel guilty about not wanting any
children. People should be able to
choose whether they want to be parents;
and society should provide means for wo-
men to feel fulfilled without children.
Women's Collective

Page 12/April 25, 1970/off our backs