survival
the diaphragm

by Marlene Wicks

    This is a serial column written to
serve as a forum for our physical and
mental well-being. The recent "pill"
hearings have unsettled us all. We must
turn to other means of birth control un-
til we have more information regarding
oral contraceptives. I'll start with
the diaphragm.

    The diaphragm, also called a pes-
sary, is a birth control device and the
safest in terms of the woman's health
of all the devices known. It is design-
ed to cover the opening to the uterus
(cervix), and with experience will be
as easy to insert as a tampon. It is
made of soft rubber and looks like half
a lemon peel with the rim rolled back
up into itself. Inside the rim there is
either a coil spring or a flat spring
which may be compressed on opposite sides
to enable the shape of a slipper for in-
sertion.

    Vaginal creams or jellies are avail-
able and should be used with the diaph-
ragm. They come in tubes like toothpaste
and are spread around the rim and inside
the cup. These preparations help dest-
roy male sperm, are impenetrable by semen
and act as suction to keep the diaphragm
in position.

    You can insert the diaphragm stand-
ing, squatting, or lying down. Hold
and compress the diaphragm between the
thumb, index and third fingers. The
index finger is placed inside the de-
pressed diaphragm. Insert the diaphragm
as far back as it will go behind the
cervix. Then push the near part of the
cup behind the pubic bone in front.
The diaphragm will have sprung into
position to cover the cervix. Check
this by running your forefinger around
the rim and over the dome to be sure.

    Mechanical inserters are sometimes
prescribed as an alternate to the coil
spring diaphragm. The diaphragm is
placed on the introducer, which looks
like a curved plastic stick, fitting the
rim into the end groove, then hooking
the opposite rim over the appropriate
notch. Ease the introducer along the
floor of the vagina, as you would a tam-
pon, until it can no longer be pushed
in. To remove the introducer after the
diaphragm is in place, give it a quart-
er turn left or right - which disengages
it from the diaphragm. Then, gently
withdraw the introducer. The near rim
of the diaphragm is then pushed up be-
hind the pubic bone. Check as before
to make sure the dome is covering the
cervix.

    When inserted properly, neither you
nor your mate will be aware of the dia-
phragm in the vagina, and there will be
no dulling of sensation. The contracep-
tive preparation is not harmful to the
vaginal canal nor harmful if ingested
orally.

    It should remain in place for from
six to eight hours after intercourse.
Intercourse may be repeated without re-
moving the diaphragm, however, an ap-
plicator filled with the contraceptive
cream or jelly must be inserted outside
the diaphragm each time.

    A douche may be taken at the time
of removal, half before and half after.
To remove the diaphragm, a finger is
hooked under its edge and it is drawn
out. The dome will wash away any re-
maining semen and eliminate the odor
which is offensive to some women. Opin-
ions differ on the use of a douche, es-
pecially concerning whether or not to
add medication to the water. Some doc-
tors feel that douching is not necessary
at all. Douches will be discussed in
another column.

    Diaphragms must be fitted to your
cervix. This is very important; many
women have just gone to a drug store,
bought the wrong size and become preg-
nant. If the diaphragm is too small
or too large, it is more likely to be-

A STANDARD MODERN DIAPHRAGM

FOLDING THE DIAPHRAGM

INSERTING THE DIAPHRAGM MANUALLY

INSERTING ADDITIONAL CREAM OR JELLY

REMOVING THE DIAPHRAGM WITH FORCEPS

come dislodged. The size of your cer-
vix will change after giving birth to
a child and may change again after a
few months. It must be refitted both
times. The doctor will fit your dia-
phragm and either write a prescription
for you to obtain one from a drugstore
or sell you one from his office. The
approximate cost is $3 to $5, and with
good care lasts several years.

    Rubber deteriorates with age. Prior
to use, the diaphragm should be filled
with water or held up to a light to de-
tect any holes or cracks. After use,
wash it with mild soap and water and dry
it to prevent early deterioration. A
light dusting of talc will help keep the
rubber from sticking together.

    When the diaphragm is properly fit-
ted and used as directed, it is almost
impossible for a woman to become preg-
nant. We must get over our shame of
"planning for sex" if we are going to
protect ourselves from unwanted preg-
nancies.

    Readers' opinions or questions are
encouraged. Let us hear from you.

psychology of
the diaphragm

by Alison Sand

    "My doctor told me that if using a
diaphragm were a test of mental ability
I'd be given a more rating."

    That quote is unique to one woman's
experience with this strange gynecolo-
gist but it is, unfortunately, revealing.
Most women don't receive adequate infor-
mation or encouragement from their doc-
tors and leave his office insecure about
the device itself and about their abil-
ity to use it.

    Learn to use your diaphragm before
you need to use it. Make time for a
thorough reading of the preceding arti-
cle and the instruction pamphlet that
will come with your diaphragm. Then
take that written material and all the
other important information to the bath-
room, close the door, and practice.

    Practise (sic) until it doesn't take
you a great deal of effort. All alone
you are exercising a skill that is
roughly comparable to difficult ly
learning chord on a guitar, knitting,
or rolling a joint. The more familiar
the cribed to your emotional and physi-
cal well being.

    Check out the diagrams. Explore
yourself for sensitivity or embarrassment.
If it's perfectly all right for your fingers
to be exploring your vagina in search of
a cervical rim, in fact, it's really a turn
on to locate and to recognize and be able
to understand the function of those im-
portant parts of your self.

    More important possibly than your
confidence in your ability to use a dia-
phragm is a contraceptive is your mater-
of-fact acceptance of your right to use
it. Solid honesty about sex, about the
way you feel about using the diaphragm,
and your attitudes to the major responsibility
for contraception, will be helpful if
for that support and your mate's assist-
ance. If his comment is "that's a lot of
fuss" or "it will ruin the moment" you
can try to help him realize that you are
not trying to deprive him, but are
instead taking measures to keep your own
life and blood you.

12/February 27, 1970/off our backs

This content downloaded from
130.127.238.233 on Mon, 30 Jun 2015 19:48:03 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms